first-commit (#1)
oracle-devrel/kubeflow-oke: README.md

> # Kubeflow-Oke

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Kubeflow for Oracle Container Engine for Kubernetes
```

[uri-kubernetes]: https://kubernetes.io/
[uri-oci]: https://cloud.oracle.com/cloud-infrastructure
[uri-oci-documentation]: https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/home.htm
[uri-oke]: https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/ContEng/Concepts/contengoverview.htm
[uri-oracle]: https://www.oracle.com

[![License: UPL](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-UPL-green)](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-UPL-green) [![Quality gate](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/quality_gate?project=oracle-devrel_kubeflow-oke)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=oracle-devrel_kubeflow-oke)

> <!-- ## THIS IS A NEW, BLANK REPO THAT IS NOT READY FOR USE YET.  PLEASE CHECK BACK SOON! -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Table of Contents

> <!-- toc -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)

>     - [Create OKE](#create-oke)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Create an Oracle Container Engine for Kubernetes (OKE) Cluster](#create-oke)
```

    - [Install Kubeflow](#install-kubeflow)
    - [Access Kubeflow Dashboard](#access-kubeflow-dashboard)
  - [Notes/Issues](#notesissues)
  - [URLs](#urls)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

<!-- tocstop -->

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Introduction

> Running Kubeflow on [Oracle Container Engine (OKE)][uri-oke].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> OKE is [Oracle's][uri-oracle] managed [Kubernetes][uri-kubernetes] service on [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)][uri-oci].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oracle Container Engine for Kubernetes (OKE) is the [Oracle][uri-oracle]-managed [Kubernetes][uri-kubernetes] service on [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)][uri-oci]. 
```

## Getting Started

> > ⚠️ Kubeflow 1.5.0 is not compatible with Kubernetes version 1.22 and onwards. To install Kubeflow 1.5.0 and older versions, use OKE v1.21.5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ Kubeflow 1.5.0 is not compatible with Kubernetes version 1.22 and onwards. To install Kubeflow 1.5.0 or older, set the Kubernetes version of your OKE cluster to v1.21.5.
```

> This guide explains how to install Kubeflow 1.6.0 on OKE 1.22.5, 1.23.4 and 1.24.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to install Kubeflow 1.6.0 on OKE using Kubernetes versions 1.22.5, 1.23.4 and 1.24.1.
```

## Installation

This guide describes how to create a Kubernetes cluster using OKE, access OKE, install Kubeflow and expose Kubeflow Dashboard.

### Prerequisites

> This guide can be run in many different ways, but in all cases, you will need access to an Oracle Cloud Tenancy and be signed in to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide can be run in many different ways, but in all cases, you will need to be signed into an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure tenancy.
```

> The steps described below are executed from the Cloud Shell in the OCI console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide uses the [Cloud Shell](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/API/Concepts/devcloudshellintro.htm) built into the Oracle Cloud Console but can also be run from your local workstation.
```

### Create an OKE cluster

<!-- <details><summary><b>Create an OKE cluster manually</b>

> </summary> -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. In the Console, open the navigation menu and click **Developer Services**. Under **Containers & Artifacts**, click **Kubernetes Clusters (OKE)**.

    ![Hamburger Menu](images/menu.png)

2. On the Cluster List dialog, select the Compartment where you are allowed to create a cluster and then click **Create Cluster**.

    > You must select a compartment that allows you to create a cluster and a repository inside the Oracle Container Registry.

    ![Select Compartment](images/SelectCompartment.png)

3. On the Create Cluster dialog, click **Quick Create** and click **Launch Workflow**.

    ![Launch Workflow](images/LaunchWorkFlow.png)

    *Quick Create* will automatically create a new cluster with the default settings and new network resources for the new cluster.

> 4. Specify the following configuration details on the Cluster Creation dialog (pay attention to the value you place in the **Shape** field):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Specify the following configuration details on the Cluster Creation dialog paying close attention to the value you use in the **Shape** field:
```

>     * **Name**: The name of the cluster. Accept the default value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Name**: The name of the cluster. Accept the default value or provide your own.
```

>     * **Compartment**: The name of the compartment. Accept the default value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Compartment**: The name of the compartment. Accept the default value or provide your own.
```

    * **Kubernetes Version**: The version of Kubernetes. Select the **v1.23.4** version.

>     * **Kubernetes API Endpoint**: Determines if the cluster master nodes are going to be routable or not. Select the **Public Endpoint** value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Kubernetes API Endpoint**: Determines if the cluster control plane nodes will be directly accessible from external sources. Select the **Public Endpoint** value.
```

>     * **Kubernetes Worker Nodes**: Determines if the cluster worker nodes are going to be routable or not. Accept the default value **Private Workers**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Kubernetes Worker Nodes**: Determines if the cluster worker nodes will be directly accessible from external sources. Accept the default value **Private Workers**.
```

>     * **Shape**: The shape to use for each node in the node pool. The shape determines the number of CPUs and the amount of memory allocated to each node. The list shows only those shapes available in your tenancy that are supported by OKE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Shape**: The shape to use for each node in the node pool. The shape determines the number of OCPUs and the amount of memory allocated to each node. The list shows only those shapes available in your tenancy that are supported by OKE.
```

    * **Number of nodes**: The number of worker nodes to create. Accept the default value **3**.

> <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>     > **Caution**: *VM.Standard.E4.Flex is the recommended shape, but you can adjust based on your requirements and location.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Caution**: *VM.Standard.E4.Flex is the recommended shape but is not available to Always Free tenancies. You should adjust the shape based on your requirements and location.*
```

  ![Quick Cluster](images/oke-specs.png)

>   <!-- ![Enter Data](images/ClusterShape2.png) -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. Click **Next** to review the details you entered for the new cluster.

2. On the Review page, click **Create Cluster** to create the new network resources and the new cluster.

    <!-- ![Review Cluster](images/CreateCluster.png) -->

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     > You see the network resources being created for you. Wait until the request to create the node pool is initiated and then click **Close**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You see the network resources being created for you. Wait until the request to create the node pool is initiated and then click **Close**.
```

    ![Network Resource](images/NetworkCreation.png)

>     > The new cluster is shown on the Cluster Details page. When the master nodes are created, the new cluster gains a status of *Active* (it takes about 7 minutes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The new cluster is shown on the Cluster Details page. When the control plane nodes are created, the status of new cluster becomes *Active*. This usually takes around 10 minutes.
```

    ![cluster1](images/ClusterProvision.png)

    ![cluster1](images/ClusterActive.png)

>     Now your OKE cluster is ready. You can move to Kubeflow installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Now that your OKE cluster is ready, we can move on to the Kubeflow installation.
```

### Install Kubeflow

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install Kubeflow

```

# Setup Kubeflow

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Prerequisites

The following tools are required:
- oci-cli,
- kubectl,
- git are integrated

> In this guide, we will use the OCI Cloud Shell console, and all these tools are integrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following utilities are required to install Kubeflow:

- [OCI-CLI](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/API/Concepts/cliconcepts.htm)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/)
- [git](https://git-scm.com/)

These tools are installed by default in your Cloud Shell instance.
```

### Warning

<!-- - **Kubeflow 1.6.0 is not compatible with version Kubernetes 1.22 and backwards.** -->
- Kustomize (version 3.2.0) ([download link](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/tag/v3.2.0))

>     - Kubeflow 1.6.0 is not compatible with the latest versions of Kustomize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Warning:** use [Kustomize v3.2.0](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/tag/v3.2.0) as Kubeflow 1.6.0 is not compatible with the later versions of Kustomize.
```

> ## Preparation steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Preparation
```

1. Install Kustomize in Cloud Shell

>     - Open the OCI Cloud Shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Open Cloud Shell
```

>     - Make sure you are in the top level directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Make sure you are in your home directory
```

>             cd $HOME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            cd ~
```

>     - Download Kustomize version 3.2.0 and install in into your OCI Cloud Shell environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Download Kustomize v3.2.0 and install it in your Cloud Shell environment.
```

>             curl -L -o kustomize https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/v3.2.0/kustomize_3.2.0_linux_amd64

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            curl -sfL https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/v3.2.0/kustomize_3.2.0_linux_amd64 -o kustomize
```

            chmod +x ./kustomize

> 2. Clone the Kubeflow repository version 1.6.0 into your OCI Cloud Shell environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Clone the v1.6.0 branch of the Kubeflow manifests repository to your Cloud Shell environment
```

>         git clone -b v1.6-branch https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests.git kubeflow_1.6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        git clone -b v1.6-branch https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests.git kubeflow-1.6
```

>         cd kubeflow_1.6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        cd kubeflow-1.6
```

3. Change the default password

    By default email user@example.com and password is 12341234
    
    Generate a password.
    
    **Replace PASSWORD with your own password.**

        PASSWORD=YOURPASSWORD
        kubeflow_password=$(htpasswd -nbBC 12 USER $PASSWORD| sed -r 's/^.{5}//')

    Edit Dex config-map.yaml
  
    Make sure you are in the kubeflow manifests folder.

        cd $HOME/kubeflow_1.6/
        cp common/dex/base/config-map.yaml{,.org}

>         cat common/dex/base/config-map.yaml.org | sed "s|hash:.*|hash: $kubeflow_password|" > common/dex/base/config-map.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Replace the default email address and password used by Kubeflow with a randomly generated one:
    
   ```shell
   $ PASSWD=$(cat /dev/urandom | tr -dc 'a-zA-Z0-9' | fold -w 55 | head -n 1)
   $ KF_PASSWD=$(htpasswd -nbBC 12 USER $PASSWORD| sed -r 's/^.{5}//')
   $ sed -i.orig "s|hash:.*|hash: $KF_PASSWD|" common/dex/base/config-map.yaml 
   $ echo "Random password is: $PASSWD"
   ```
```

Reviewer: The formatting may be a little off on this one, so please double-check!

## Install Kubeflow

1. Access your cluster

  Click Access Cluster on your cluster detail page.
  Accept the default **Cloud Shell Access** and click **Copy** copy the `oci ce cluster create-kubeconfig ...` command and paste it into the Cloud Shell and run the command.

>   <!-- > If you installed your cluster using the single-script the access is already set. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To access your OKE cluster, click **Access Cluster** on the cluster detail page. Accept the default **Cloud Shell Access** and click **Copy** to copy the `oci ce cluster create-kubeconfig ...` command. Next, paste it into your Cloud Shell session and hit **Enter**.
```

  ![cluster1](images/AccessCluster.png)

  Verify that the `kubectl` is working by using the `get nodes` command. <br>

>   You may need to run this command several times until you see an output similar to the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Verify that the `kubectl` is working by using the `get nodes` command. You may need to repeat this command several times until all three nodes show `Ready` in the `STATUS` column.
```

  ```bash
    $ kubectl get nodes
    NAME          STATUS   ROLES   AGE   VERSION
    10.0.10.176   Ready    node    19m   v1.23.4
    10.0.10.203   Ready    node    19m   v1.23.4
    10.0.10.48    Ready    node    19m   v1.23.4
  ```

>   > If you see the node's information, then the configuration was successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When all three nodes are `Ready`, your OKE install has finished successfully.
```

2. Install Kubeflow with a single command

>         cd $HOME/kubeflow_1.6 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        cd $HOME/kubeflow-1.6 
```

        while ! $HOME/kustomize build example | kubectl apply -f -; do echo "Retrying to apply resources"; sleep 10; done

> > Installation takes about 10 to 15 min.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installation usually takes between 10 to 15 minutes.
```

> To check that all Kubeflow-related Pods are ready, use the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following commands to check if all the pods related to Kubeflow are ready:
```

  ```bash
kubectl get pods -n cert-manager
kubectl get pods -n istio-system
kubectl get pods -n auth
kubectl get pods -n knative-eventing
kubectl get pods -n knative-serving
kubectl get pods -n kubeflow
kubectl get pods -n kubeflow-user-example-com
 ```

> >It takes about 15 min to have all the containers running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It usually takes about 15 minutes for all the pods to start successfully.
```

### Access Kubeflow Dashboard

#### Expose Kubeflow to Internet

> Kubeflow v1.6 already deploy a load balancer and expose the dashboard to Internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Accessing the Kubeflow Dashboard

To enable access to the Kubeflow Dashboard from the internet, we first need to change the default `istio-ingressgateway` service created by Kubeflow into a `LoadBalancer` service using the following commands:

```

⚠️ Change the password before, and let's forward HTTP to HTTPS with a self-signed certificate.

> Change istio-ingressgateway to LoadBalancer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  spec:
    type: LoadBalancer
  metadata:
    annotations:
      oci.oraclecloud.com/load-balancer-type: "lb"
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/oci-load-balancer-shape: "flexible"
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/oci-load-balancer-shape-flex-min: "10"
      service.beta.kubernetes.io/oci-load-balancer-shape-flex-max: "100"
EOF
```
    kubectl patch svc istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system -p "$(cat $HOME/kubeflow_1.6/patchservice_lb.yaml)"

#### Enable HTTPS

  * Generate SSL certificate

  We suggest using https://smallstep.com/

  Make sure you are in the top level directory

    cd $HOME          
    mkdir keys;cd keys
    wget -O step.tar.gz https://dl.step.sm/gh-release/cli/docs-ca-install/v0.20.0/step_linux_0.20.0_amd64.tar.gz
    tar -xf step.tar.gz
    cp step_0.20.0/bin/step .

  Generate root certificate

    cd $HOME/keys
    $HOME/keys/step certificate create root.cluster.local root.crt root.key --profile root-ca --no-password --insecure --kty=RSA

  Get Ingress IP to generate certificate
  
    External_IP=$(kubectl get svc istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system -o=jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")

    cd $HOME/keys

>     $HOME/keys/step certificate create $External_IP.nip.io tls-$External_IP.crt tls-$External_IP.key --profile leaf  --not-after 8760h --no-password --insecure --kty=RSA --ca $HOME/keys/root.crt --ca-key $HOME/keys/root.key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Please replace this content with the content from here: https://gist.github.com/Djelibeybi/52ff365ef09e19a05c9df37cfca34b13 which does not rely on any third-party tool to generate certificates.

Reviewer: This is also available as a script that will generate the certificates for you: https://gist.github.com/Djelibeybi/0ad564baa715045dc9feea69e7113086

  * Create Kubernetes Secret TLS Certificate

        cd $HOME/keys

>         kubectl create secret tls kubeflow-tls-cert --key=tls-$External_IP.key --cert=tls-$External_IP.crt -n istio-system    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Create a Kubernetes Secret to store the certificate

        cd $HOME/kubeflow-ssl
        kubectl create secret tls kubeflow-tls-cert --key=$DOMAIN.key --cert=$DOMAIN.crt -n istio-system    
```

>   * Update Kubeflow API Gateway

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Update the Kubeflow API Gateway definition
```

  Create API Gateway

        cat <<EOF | tee $HOME/kubeflow_1.6/sslenableingress.yaml
        apiVersion: v1
        items:
        - apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
          kind: Gateway
          metadata:
            annotations:
            name: kubeflow-gateway
            namespace: kubeflow
          spec:
            selector:
              istio: ingressgateway
            servers:
            - hosts:
              - "*"
              port:
                name: https
                number: 443
                protocol: HTTPS
              tls:
                mode: SIMPLE
                credentialName: kubeflow-tls-cert
            - hosts:
              - "*"
              port:
                name: http
                number: 80
                protocol: HTTP
              tls:
                httpsRedirect: true
        kind: List
        metadata:
          resourceVersion: ""
          selfLink: ""
        EOF

        kubectl apply -f $HOME/kubeflow_1.6/sslenableingress.yaml
        kubectl get gateway -n kubeflow

> Congratulations you installed Kubelow on OKE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You have successfully installed Kubeflow on your OKE cluster.
```

> Access $External_IP.nip.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit https://<Load Balancer External IP>.nip.io to access the Kubeflow Dashboard.
```

> <!-- > Make sure Security List or NSG give access from outside LB TCP/80 and TCP/443 -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![Access Kubeflow Dashboard](images/AccessKF.png)

> 
> <!-- ## Notes/Issues
> MISSING -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## URLs

> 
> www.kubeflow.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Kubeflow: <https://www.kubeflow.org/>
```

## Contributing

> This project is open source.  Please submit your contributions by forking this repository and submitting a pull request!  Oracle appreciates any contributions that are made by the open source community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oracle appreciates any contributions that are made by the community. Please submit your contributions by forking this repository and submitting a pull request. Opening an issue to discuss your contribution beforehand, especially if it's a new feature, would be appreciated.
```

## License

> Copyright (c) 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
> 
> Licensed under the Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copyright (c) 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Licensed under the Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0 as shown at https://opensource.oracle.com/licenses/upl/
```
